# Setup for Running O-TLFB Locally on OSX

## Django Setup

First install [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) if you don't already have it. It is a package manager for OSX and is useful for installing all kinds of things.

### Python3

Install python3 using `brew install python`. You can confirm that it worked by opening a new terminal window and typing `which python` - you should get something like `/usr/local/opt/python/libexec/bin/python`.

### Virtual Environments
Next, install `virtualenv` and `virtualenvwrapper`. Use the command `pip install virtualenv virtualenvwrapper` to install both of them in your Python3 packages folder. They will automatically be added to your PATH. You'll want to add the following lines to the end of your `.zshrc` or `.bashrc` file:

```bash
export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/.virtualenvs
source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh
```

Now when you open a new terminal window, you should be able to use the command `lsvirtualenv` without any errors.

### Database (PostgreSQL)

Next, install PostgreSQL. Run `brew install postgresql`. Once it finishes, run `brew services start postgresql` to let homebrew automatically manage its lifecycle for you (it will always just run silently in the background).

(hint: you can also install the GUI program PSequel via `brew cask install psequel` to use a GUI to browse around your data. I use Postico, but it's a paid program).

Once all this is done, you'll want to type the command `createdb tlfb` to instruct postgres to make a new database called "tlfb". When this runs successfully, you're ready to dive into the project itself.

```
brew install postgresql
brew services start postgresql
createdb tlfb
```

### Virtual Environment and Django

Clone the repository to a folder (mine is just ~/Desktop/TLFB). `cd` into the folder, then run `mkvirtualenv TLFB` to tell Python3 to make a virtual environment specifically for this project called TLFB. Once that's done, you  should do a `which python` command, which should give you output similar to `/Users/yourusername/.virtualenvs/TLFB/bin/python`. This indicates you're correctly in the virtual environment  for this project. While still in the TLFB folder, type `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install into your local  environment all the dependencies that this project has. This should run without any problems but might take a  minute or two.

Once the dependencies are all installed, type `./manage.py migrate` to run the database migrations - these are a series of mutating SQL scripts automatically generated by Django based on our models that prime the database with the correct tables and columns for our project. Next, type `./manage.py createsuperuser` to create an administrator user that can log into the admin panel to modify data from there as well.


## Celery setup

### Info
We use celery to send data to a separate storage location like REDCap. To collect data you do not need to have this running. By default, all the data will be stored to the database without celery running. The reason we use celery is to remove any possibility of losing data if an API endpoint fails to upload or times out. Services like heroku only have so much processing power, and celery will add a task to a queue. 

If you are going to be hosting this on heroku, you will need to have two hobby dynos for everything to run properly.

### Redis
Celery requires a solution to send and receive messages; usually this comes in the form of a separate service for this  project we are using redis. Follow this instruction to install redis locally.

```
brew update
brew install redis
brew services start redis
```

If you don't want redis running in the background, you can run the following command whenever you start the O-TLFB server:

```
redis-server /usr/local/etc/redis.conf
```

Test to make sure it is running with `redis-cli ping`, and you should receive a 'PONG' response.
